# Inertial Magnetic SLAM Systems Using Low-Cost Sensors

**출처:** [ArXiv_Robotics](https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.10128)

## 요약
arXiv:2512.10128v1 Announce Type: new
Abstract: Spatially inhomogeneous magnetic fields offer a valuable, non-visual information source for positioning. Among systems leveraging this, magnetic field-based simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) systems are particularly attractive because they can provide positioning information and build a magnetic field map on the fly. Moreover, they have bounded error within mapped regions. However, state-of-the-art methods typically require low-drift odometry data provided by visual odometry or a wheel encoder, etc. This is because these systems need to minimize/reduce positioning errors while exploring, which happens when they are in unmapped regions. To address these limitations, this work proposes a loosely coupled and a tightly coupled inertial magnetic SLAM (IM-SLAM) system. The proposed systems use commonly available low-cost sensors: an inertial measurement unit (IMU), a magnetometer array, and a barometer. The use of non-visual data provides a significant advantage over visual-based systems, making it robust to low-visibility conditions. Both systems employ state-space representations, and magnetic field models on different scales. The difference lies in how they use a local and global magnetic field model. The loosely coupled system uses these models separately in two state-space models, while the tightly coupled system integrates them into one state-space model. Experiment results show that the tightly coupled IM-SLAM system achieves lower positioning errors than the loosely coupled system in most scenarios, with typical errors on the order of meters per 100 meters traveled. These results demonstrate the feasiblity of developing a full 3D IM-SLAM systems using low-cost sensors and the potential of applying these systems in emergency response scenarios such as mine/fire rescue.
