# Non-Invasive Calibration Of A Stewart Platform By Photogrammetry

**출처:** [ArXiv_Robotics](https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.25072)

## 요약
arXiv:2510.25072v1 Announce Type: new
Abstract: Accurate calibration of a Stewart platform is important for their precise and efficient operation. However, the calibration of these platforms using forward kinematics is a challenge for researchers because forward kinematics normally generates multiple feasible and unfeasible solutions for any pose of the moving platform. The complex kinematic relations among the six actuator paths connecting the fixed base to the moving platform further compound the difficulty in establishing a straightforward and efficient calibration method. The authors developed a new forward kinematics-based calibration method using Denavit-Hartenberg convention and used the Stewart platform Tiger 66.1 developed in their lab for experimenting with the photogrammetry-based calibration strategies described in this paper. This system became operational upon completion of construction, marking its inaugural use. The authors used their calibration model for estimating the errors in the system and adopted three compensation options or strategies as per Least Square method to improve the accuracy of the system. These strategies leveraged a high-resolution digital camera and off-the-shelf software to capture the poses of the moving platform's center. This process is non-invasive and does not need any additional equipment to be attached to the hexapod or any alteration of the hexapod hardware. This photogrammetry-based calibration process involves multiple high-resolution images from different angles to measure the position and orientation of the platform center in the three-dimensional space. The Target poses and Actual poses are then compared, and the error compensations are estimated using the Least-Squared methods to calculate the Predicted poses. Results from each of the three compensation approaches demonstrated noticeable enhancements in platform pose accuracies, suggesting room for further improvements.
