# PolyFly: Polytopic Optimal Planning for Collision-Free Cable-Suspended Aerial Payload Transportation

**출처:** [ArXiv_Robotics](https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.15226)

## 요약
arXiv:2510.15226v1 Announce Type: new
Abstract: Aerial transportation robots using suspended cables have emerged as versatile platforms for disaster response and rescue operations. To maximize the capabilities of these systems, robots need to aggressively fly through tightly constrained environments, such as dense forests and structurally unsafe buildings, while minimizing flight time and avoiding obstacles. Existing methods geometrically over-approximate the vehicle and obstacles, leading to conservative maneuvers and increased flight times. We eliminate these restrictions by proposing PolyFly, an optimal global planner which considers a non-conservative representation for aerial transportation by modeling each physical component of the environment, and the robot (quadrotor, cable and payload), as independent polytopes. We further increase the model accuracy by incorporating the attitude of the physical components by constructing orientation-aware polytopes. The resulting optimal control problem is efficiently solved by converting the polytope constraints into smooth differentiable constraints via duality theory. We compare our method against the existing state-of-the-art approach in eight maze-like environments and show that PolyFly produces faster trajectories in each scenario. We also experimentally validate our proposed approach on a real quadrotor with a suspended payload, demonstrating the practical reliability and accuracy of our method.
