# RflyUT-Sim: A Simulation Platform for Development and Testing of Complex Low-Altitude Traffic Control

**출처:** [ArXiv_Robotics](https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.24112)

## 요약
arXiv:2512.24112v1 Announce Type: new
Abstract: Significant challenges are posed by simulation and testing in the field of low-altitude unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) traffic due to the high costs associated with large-scale UAV testing and the complexity of establishing low-altitude traffic test scenarios. Stringent safety requirements make high fidelity one of the key metrics for simulation platforms. Despite advancements in simulation platforms for low-altitude UAVs, there is still a shortage of platforms that feature rich traffic scenarios, high-precision UAV and scenario simulators, and comprehensive testing capabilities for low-altitude traffic. Therefore, this paper introduces an integrated high-fidelity simulation platform for low-altitude UAV traffic. This platform simulates all components of the UAV traffic network, including the control system, the traffic management system, the UAV system, the communication network , the anomaly and fault modules, etc. Furthermore, it integrates RflySim/AirSim and Unreal Engine 5 to develop full-state models of UAVs and 3D maps that model the real world using the oblique photogrammetry technique. Additionally, the platform offers a wide range of interfaces, and all models and scenarios can be customized with a high degree of flexibility. The platform's source code has been released, making it easier to conduct research related to low-altitude traffic.
