# A Machine Learning-Driven Solution for Denoising Inertial Confinement Fusion Images

**출처:** [ArXiv_Computer_Vision](https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.16717)

## 요약
arXiv:2511.16717v1 Announce Type: new
Abstract: Neutron imaging is important in optimizing analysis of inertial confinement fusion (ICF) events such as those at the National Ignition Facility (NIF) and improving current and future ICF platforms. However, images of neutron sources are often degraded by various types of noise. Most commonly, Gaussian and Poisson noise often coexist within one image, obscuring fine details and blurring edges. These noise types often overlap, making them difficult to distinguish and remove using conventional filtering and thresholding methods. As a result, noise removal techniques that preserve image fidelity are important for analyzing and interpreting images of a neutron source. Current solutions include a combination of filtering and thresholding methodologies. In the past, machine learning approaches were rarely implemented due to a lack of ground truth neutron imaging data for ICF processes. However, recent advances in synthetic data production, particularly in the fusion imaging field, have opened opportunities to investigate new denoising procedures using both supervised and unsupervised machine learning methods. In this study, we implement an unsupervised autoencoder with a Cohen-Daubechies- Feauveau (CDF 97) wavelet transform in the latent space for mixed Gaussian-Poisson denoising. The network successfully denoises neutron imaging data. Additionally, it demonstrates lower reconstruction error and superior edge preservation metrics when benchmarked with data generated by a forward model and compared to non-ML-based filtering mechanisms such as Block-matching and 3D filtering (BM3D). This approach presents a promising advancement in neutron image noise reduction and three-dimensional reconstruction analysis of ICF experiments.
