# Scalable spatial point process models for forensic footwear analysis

**출처:** [ArXiv_Computer_Vision](https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.07006)

## 요약
arXiv:2602.07006v1 Announce Type: new
Abstract: Shoe print evidence recovered from crime scenes plays a key role in forensic investigations. By examining shoe prints, investigators can determine details of the footwear worn by suspects. However, establishing that a suspect's shoes match the make and model of a crime scene print may not be sufficient. Typically, thousands of shoes of the same size, make, and model are manufactured, any of which could be responsible for the print. Accordingly, a popular approach used by investigators is to examine the print for signs of ``accidentals,'' i.e., cuts, scrapes, and other features that accumulate on shoe soles after purchase due to wear. While some patterns of accidentals are common on certain types of shoes, others are highly distinctive, potentially distinguishing the suspect's shoe from all others. Quantifying the rarity of a pattern is thus essential to accurately measuring the strength of forensic evidence. In this study, we address this task by developing a hierarchical Bayesian model. Our improvement over existing methods primarily stems from two advancements. First, we frame our approach in terms of a latent Gaussian model, thus enabling inference to be efficiently scaled to large collections of annotated shoe prints via integrated nested Laplace approximations. Second, we incorporate spatially varying coefficients to model the relationship between shoes' tread patterns and accidental locations. We demonstrate these improvements through superior performance on held-out data, which enhances accuracy and reliability in forensic shoe print analysis.
