# Toward Reliable Tea Leaf Disease Diagnosis Using Deep Learning Model: Enhancing Robustness With Explainable AI and Adversarial Training

**출처:** [ArXiv_Computer_Vision](https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.11239)

## 요약
arXiv:2602.11239v1 Announce Type: new
Abstract: Tea is a valuable asset for the economy of Bangladesh. So, tea cultivation plays an important role to boost the economy. These valuable plants are vulnerable to various kinds of leaf infections which may cause less production and low quality. It is not so easy to detect these diseases manually. It may take time and there could be some errors in the detection.Therefore, the purpose of the study is to develop an automated deep learning model for tea leaf disease classification based on the teaLeafBD dataset so that anyone can detect the diseases more easily and efficiently. There are 5,278 high-resolution images in this dataset. The images are classified into seven categories. Six of them represents various diseases and the rest one represents healthy leaves. The proposed pipeline contains data preprocessing, data splitting, adversarial training, augmentation, model training, evaluation, and comprehension made possible with Explainable AI strategies. DenseNet201 and EfficientNetB3 were employed to perform the classification task. To prepare the model more robustly, we applied adversarial training so it can operate effectively even with noisy or disturbed inputs. In addition, Grad-CAM visualization was executed to analyze the model's predictions by identifying the most influential regions of each image. Our experimental outcomes revealed that EfficientNetB3 achieved the highest classification accuracy of 93%, while DenseNet201 reached 91%. The outcomes prove that the effectiveness of the proposed approach can accurately detect tea leaf diseases and provide a practical solution for advanced agricultural management.
