# Joint Parameter and State-Space Bayesian Optimization: Using Process Expertise to Accelerate Manufacturing Optimization

**출처:** [ArXiv_Machine_Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.17679)

## 요약
arXiv:2602.17679v1 Announce Type: new
Abstract: Bayesian optimization (BO) is a powerful method for optimizing black-box manufacturing processes, but its performance is often limited when dealing with high-dimensional multi-stage systems, where we can observe intermediate outputs. Standard BO models the process as a black box and ignores the intermediate observations and the underlying process structure. Partially Observable Gaussian Process Networks (POGPN) model the process as a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG). However, using intermediate observations is challenging when the observations are high-dimensional state-space time series. Process-expert knowledge can be used to extract low-dimensional latent features from the high-dimensional state-space data. We propose POGPN-JPSS, a framework that combines POGPN with Joint Parameter and State-Space (JPSS) modeling to use intermediate extracted information. We demonstrate the effectiveness of POGPN-JPSS on a challenging, high-dimensional simulation of a multi-stage bioethanol production process. Our results show that POGPN-JPSS significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods by achieving the desired performance threshold twice as fast and with greater reliability. The fast optimization directly translates to substantial savings in time and resources. This highlights the importance of combining expert knowledge with structured probabilistic models for rapid process maturation.
