# Learning to Reason: Temporal Saliency Distillation for Interpretable Knowledge Transfer

**출처:** [ArXiv_Machine_Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.04263)

## 요약
arXiv:2601.04263v1 Announce Type: new
Abstract: Knowledge distillation has proven effective for model compression by transferring knowledge from a larger network called the teacher to a smaller network called the student. Current knowledge distillation in time series is predominantly based on logit and feature aligning techniques originally developed for computer vision tasks. These methods do not explicitly account for temporal data and fall short in two key aspects. First, the mechanisms by which the transferred knowledge helps the student model learning process remain unclear due to uninterpretability of logits and features. Second, these methods transfer only limited knowledge, primarily replicating the teacher predictive accuracy. As a result, student models often produce predictive distributions that differ significantly from those of their teachers, hindering their safe substitution for teacher models. In this work, we propose transferring interpretable knowledge by extending conventional logit transfer to convey not just the right prediction but also the right reasoning of the teacher. Specifically, we induce other useful knowledge from the teacher logits termed temporal saliency which captures the importance of each input timestep to the teacher prediction. By training the student with Temporal Saliency Distillation we encourage it to make predictions based on the same input features as the teacher. Temporal Saliency Distillation requires no additional parameters or architecture specific assumptions. We demonstrate that Temporal Saliency Distillation effectively improves the performance of baseline methods while also achieving desirable properties beyond predictive accuracy. We hope our work establishes a new paradigm for interpretable knowledge distillation in time series analysis.
