# Practical Machine Learning for Aphasic Discourse Analysis

**출처:** [ArXiv_Machine_Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.17553)

## 요약
arXiv:2511.17553v1 Announce Type: new
Abstract: Analyzing spoken discourse is a valid means of quantifying language ability in persons with aphasia. There are many ways to quantify discourse, one common way being to evaluate the informativeness of the discourse. That is, given the total number of words produced, how many of those are context-relevant and accurate. This type of analysis is called Correct Information Unit (CIU) analysis and is one of the most prevalent discourse analyses used by speech-language pathologists (SLPs). Despite this, CIU analysis in the clinic remains limited due to the manual labor needed by SLPs to code and analyze collected speech. Recent advances in machine learning (ML) seek to augment such labor by automating modeling of propositional, macrostructural, pragmatic, and multimodal dimensions of discourse. To that end, this study evaluated five ML models for reliable identification of Correct Information Units (CIUs, Nicholas & Brookshire, 1993), during a picture description task. The five supervised ML models were trained using randomly selected human-coded transcripts and accompanying words and CIUs from persons with aphasia. The baseline model training produced a high accuracy across transcripts for word vs non-word, with all models achieving near perfect performance (0.995) with high AUC range (0.914 min, 0.995 max). In contrast, CIU vs non-CIU showed a greater variability, with the k-nearest neighbor (k-NN) model the highest accuracy (0.824) and second highest AUC (0.787). These findings indicate that while the supervised ML models can distinguish word from not word, identifying CIUs is challenging.
